### Name
A New Hope: How EVE Online is Winning Against Ten Years of Technical
Debt

### Category
Best Practices & Patterns

### Python Level
Novice

### Audience
Novices who want their codebase to get better, veterans who want their
codebase to not get worse.

### Objectives
Attendees will get real world insight on how today's great idea
becomes tomorrow's tragedy, and how to address cultural and technical
problems when it comes time to make things right. They will come away
energized enough to fight against legacy code, and informed enough to
win.

### Duration
30 minutes

### Description
In the days of Python 1.5, programmers at CCP working on EVE Online
decided to implement a custom Python import mechanism, appropriately
named "Nasty". Over the course of the next decade, they found this to
be a very bad idea. The story of the creation and destruction of Nasty
is one of success, fall, and redemption. It will hopefully inspire you
in your own fight against legacy code.

### Detailed Abstract
In the days of Python 1.5, programmers at CCP working on the MMORPG
EVE Online decided to implement a custom Python importer,
appropriately named "Nasty".

Over the course of the next decade, this very clever importer turned
into a very big problem. A single namespace could be split between
dozens of locations on disk. Modules and files were not cohesive.
Features like a test runner and mocking were added directly into the
importer. Circular references, well supported under Nasty, abounded.
Developers new to the codebase perverted undesirable behavior into
best practices. Many once useful features turned into a dreadful
maintenance burden.

But the programmers of CCP would not allow EVE to go the route of
legacy software and fade into obscurity. In the face of overwhelming
adversity, some programmers formed a plan to kill Nasty and replace it
with a system named Nice. They decided to fight great cleverness with
even greater cleverness. They conspired in secret, away from the eyes
of The Producers. In the meantime they created ways to avoid feeding
Nasty even more innocent souls.

Finally, nearly two years after Nice was conceived, the attack was
launched in an all out two week flurry of refactoring. How did the
adventure end? You will have to watch to find out. We hope our
experiences will inspire you in your own fight against legacy code.

### Outline
I actually plan on correlating the presentation to the Star Wars
Skywalker plot line, so I'll include the analog for each step. I feel
it works on many levels, including Nice as the Luke to Nasty as
Anakin, but more importantly as the next generation of developers like
Rob taking the torch from the old guard like Kristjan. And also the
old guard ascending to misunderstood deity and immortality.

10. Intro: Kristjan and Rob introduce themselves and set the stage by
    going over the high-level outline in broad strokes, similar to the
    Detailed Description. Explain that this talk is about the
    conception of legacy software systems, how they transform, and how
    to remove them. That the situation is common but our story is only
    unique because we succeeded. Explain that we're here representing
    our comrades who did the bulk of the work but of course also made
    the bulk of the bad decisions!
        10. 4 minutes
                20. Introduce the Star Wars motif.
                    20. Kristjan explains the circumstances under
                        which Nasty was developed and the early days
                        of CCP. Explain what Python was like in the
                        early days, what it's like working in a
                        startup, the ideas behind Nasty, and why
                        building Nasty was important.
                            10. 3 minutes
                                    20. Star Wars: Anakin fighting for
                                        justice, glory, destiny, love.
                                        He has conviction!
                                        30. Kristjan explains how
                                            Nasty works technically.
                                                10. 3 minutes
                                                        20. Star Wars:
                                                            Kristjan
                                                            is a Jedi.
                                                            40.
                                                                Kristjan
                                                               explains
                                                               what
                                                               happens
                                                               to a
                                                               successful
                                                               startup
                                                               product.
                                                               It
                                                               grows
                                                               and
                                                               mutates
                                                               into
                                                               unforeseen
                                                               ways
                                                               that no
                                                               one is
                                                               happy
                                                               with.
                                                               Original
                                                               developers
                                                               move
                                                               onto
                                                               other
                                                               things.
                                                                   10.
                                                                       2
                                                                      minutes
                                                                           20.
                                                                               Star
                                                                              Wars:
                                                                              Anakin's
                                                                              fall
                                                                              from
                                                                              grace,
                                                                              formation
                                                                              of
                                                                              the
                                                                              Empire.
                                                                              50.
                                                                                  Rob
                                                                                 and
                                                                                 Kristjan
                                                                                 describe
                                                                                 what
                                                                                 happened
                                                                                 to
                                                                                 Nasty,
                                                                                 with
                                                                                 examples
                                                                                 of
                                                                                 the
                                                                                 types
                                                                                 of
                                                                                 things
                                                                                 that
                                                                                 were
                                                                                 added,
                                                                                 and
                                                                                 ways
                                                                                 the
                                                                                 system
                                                                                 was
                                                                                 abused
                                                                                 (intentional
                                                                                 and
                                                                                 not).
                                                                                     10.
                                                                                         4
                                                                                        minutes
                                                                                             20.
                                                                                                 Star
                                                                                                Wars:
                                                                                                Continued
                                                                                                corruption
                                                                                                of
                                                                                                the
                                                                                                Empire,
                                                                                                war
                                                                                                on
                                                                                                Rebels.
                                                                                                    30.
                                                                                                        Include
                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                       discussion
                                                                                                       of
                                                                                                       unit
                                                                                                       testing
                                                                                                       during
                                                                                                       importing,
                                                                                                       mocking,
                                                                                                       type
                                                                                                       registries,
                                                                                                       circular
                                                                                                       references,
                                                                                                       type-creation-on-export.
                                                                                                           40.
                                                                                                               This
                                                                                                              is
                                                                                                              a 
